I'm on again.
Can you just walk in the ground floor and look at the room?
That's mainly the development office over there, isn't it?
Yes.
I'm on again, so we can continue.
Well, Dr. Ransom's idea of this treasure was to share.
And one of my primaries was to let people come and select artwork.
for any university facility and also the governor's office.
And because these were his calling cards, they were a way of introducing us to these people and of doing them a thing which you might or might not put in later.
But one of the greatest things he ever did to me was he called me at 10 o'clock the morning and said,
Uh, the art department is taking pictures to the speaker of the house, to just a quarter in the Capitol building at Manacostia.
And he said, can you get there before the paper?
Well, I had no station wagon, so he threw about 40 pounds in the station wagon.
He rushed down to the Capitol building.
carried him up all those little back elevators up to the third floor, lined them up in the hall, and then had Mrs. Daniel come out and lift them.
And she selected about 25, let's see.
We left there about 12 or 15 dollars.
But that just pleased him.
He was just doing that.
Apparently he was pleased by a lot of things.
Now, Dave Romer finally spoke to us earlier.
He was a student here, and he did a student publication.
And Dr. Ranson called and said, this is wonderful.
This is reminding me of something that he had done.
And he said, it was like getting a call from God, you know.
And he said, it was, but his enthusiasm.
Did not miss anything.
And apparently his enthusiasm would penetrate every level.
Well, let me tell you how great his enthusiasm and sharing was.
Out of this budget that she got so easily from the Board of Regents,
He furnished money to all departments on campus.
If the geology department wanted to set his books they couldn't afford, they'd call him and he'd buy it for him.
and he had placed i worked in 1962 for the art department i was paid by the chairman of the arts department boarded me and he requested the job decisions in the arts as long as he ran from his chancellor he was giving out technology anybody who needs
on Kansas, in any department, for any reason, he would find it.
And if it supported the ultimate good of the HSC?
It didn't matter.
He knew he was anointed and he was more than willing to share it.
When you say $2 million, is that for acquisitions or is that just the budget?
No, that was just the budget.
Just for acquisitions.
And it was basically, you know what you want, or is that a question of telling them what he was getting, or just go get it, right?
Well, he would always, one year, he would always do some kind of a favorite thing before, to let them know what was happening.
One year, he emerged in here with a bookstore and said, all right, what have you been doing?
I said, well, it's on this book.
He said, okay, love him.
So I quit off.
Was he a dynamic person?
Describe them for me.
I mean, did he walk in?
When I was in the Navy, we used to say a captain was really a captain if he had command presence.
Oh, he walked in the room and everything.
How was that?
How can you describe that?
Well, he was not a tall man.
One, you have to give it
He had a very, what is the word, melodious?
It was not soft, but it was very full and mellow, and he had beautiful diction.
I don't know where, but he brought in Texas.
He was just born like a reincarnation of somebody.
He had eyes that didn't pierce you or anything.
If you got into those eyes, you didn't get out.
It's like the man has done with $20,000.
It really doesn't matter what he said.
He said it so exquisite.
He made you feel he was the most important person in the world.
And he, for instance, Mrs. Hustis was always talking to janitors on one hand with the governors and that.
audience to the royal presence might have it.
It, of course, would have precipitated further, but it always never started.
So you said, audience to the royal presence.
Was this the perception that people had out here, you think, that he really was on a level?
What I'm trying to say, he was not inaccessible.
But people were an aww, aww, aww.
I hate that word, but he was aww.
He was that kind of a person.
Inspired aww.
Yeah, he was talking to somebody very important.
On the other hand, he made you feel so important.
He had something he wanted to say just to you, to nobody else.
If he wanted you to go out and roll on the ground like Edward.
You would have been happy to do that.
Because you knew it was important for him.
He didn't waste time on free-free.
His idea of importance was people and treating them well so that they treated themselves well.
And he also knew that he treated them well.
They worked like dogs for you.
And Mrs. Hussberg worked herself the best.
She worked every night till midnight.
She had a heart attack.
The doctor told her she had one year to live, and she didn't quit work.
That's when it's really .
She said, well, I just want to live long enough to see Dr. .
So she came over and picked up paintings for her offices, and Dr. .
He'd been there three days since she was taken off the hospital again.
We hung the painting she had selected over her desk, but she never saw it.
She died.
But he'd been in that building three days since she died.
So she achieved her goal in any case.
She selected the painting.
It was called an offering for the day of the dead.
But she never saw it.
Do you have that painting?
Is that maybe?
No, it's not on one now, it's on the other side.
And the Tom Lee Creek is Dr. Ransett, loves Dr. Ransett Creek, right?
Those are his... Was he a detail man, or was he more interested in the grand scope?
As I say, he was everything.
He was the visionary, the organizer, the PR, the detail man.
I mean, but did he pass on, like, let's say, there's a manuscript collection that a dealer might have?
And we're going to talk, well, how much do we pay for it?
Is this something that he would work out, or was it just important to him that we get it?
He worked his hand to the box.
He did.
So he took care of that.
But he could do it so fast, because he knew what he was talking about.
He could make up his mind.
He knew what he was doing.
But the material, he knew the paperwork he was doing.
He knew what the materials were.
He could always psych out the other person who wanted to buy the collection.
He could always figure out what the right price was to offer.
Occasionally, we'd lose something.
We lost the Pound Collection because somebody at HRC got into some kind of a hassle.
So, you lost a few things.
He wasn't successful in everything he did.
No, not in everything, but as long as we bought all the British materials, and my favorite story is that throughout seven or eight years of this, the Crown passed the law that nothing over 75 years old could be loose in the country without the point of permission, and we've always taken this a bag of honor to direct the premier at the university.
That's the second time we've read that today.
Well, I've heard so many British accents today.
I mean, people are here doing their research.
They have to come here for things.
I really feel it.
But it's in a nice place.
I mean, it's in a safe place.
But then they've got all of Egypt in here.
One of the funniest things is, you know, I'm depraising now.
Let's get back to this.
So, the...
One of the arbitrary decisions made was whether you keep a collection together, or you divide it according to the structure.
And the decision had to be made before the making of the building.
Made to the site, the material, and the manuscript, the art work.
And some of the objects in this renaissance, that's Edgar Allan Poe's bell on the wall.
It came off of his house in Richmond, Virginia.
This is Frida Kahlo.
Her portrait right behind you, excuse me, that one right there, that is, well, you see, it was part of Nicholas Marais' collection.
He's the great, famous American photographer living in Mexico City.
Thank you.
The book with Herrera from Chicago wrote, her biography really made a sense.
I have a mindset purpose, I think, where it is the most famous world, I guess.
We could request a week to leave the smoke up in the middle of the night.
A general idea of what we have.
Oh, that's the Borzoi.
There it is.
That's been on.
This is the famous Borzoi.
That's the dog.
And there it
And that's his own stained glass.
That's his own.
No, this was from his library.
He said when he died, we got the remaining books.
What we want to see is about from his personal library from Purchase.
That was in the library.
And we have all these certificates in here.
And the most interesting thing in America is this top.
I don't have to come up with this for 40 years and it came here with the collection.
Well, part of my job is I have a student who's coming to choose unknown artworks to work on research.
She built one semester research and did.
She discovered it's one of five in the world.
There's only one place in the world where the clay is found in this particular place in Vietnam.
Really?
It was made in the 15th century.
Others are at the University of Hawaii, honestly.
Did we figure out how South got it, I wonder?
She wrote to him.
He couldn't remember where he got it.
But he was furious when she wrote to him because he hadn't taken his office income tax.
He didn't know that it was worth anything at all, you see.
It's worth about $200,000.
He had it on his testimony, didn't he?
Yeah, right.
And these are George Bernard Shaw's kind of stuff.
They had all the rest of the silver.
These are cane hands.
They're wonderful.
They're almost like scrimshaw.
Two of them are ivory, and one is shade, and one is thumbs.
This is the pansy young silver.
Pansy and her husband were dirt farmers in East Texas, and they moved to Houston.
He bought a throwing station.
Somebody said, wouldn't you like to drill?
This was in the 30s.
In 1939, he had made all his friends so rich that they, in commemoration and thanks,
They had a complete set of everything, twelve of every pancreas, made one design only.
There is no other set like it in the world for Pansy, Yaunt, and the same as the two of her memorial dinner in 1939.
What do we call it?
Pansy, which is Mrs. Yaunt's neck.
I see.
Okay.
So this is the Pansy Yaunt silver collection.
How do we spell the yarn?
And we have the other twelve of everything in the kitchen.
Yeah, we have the punch ball.
We allow those to be used, too, for university trips.
It's mostly, uh, but, um, I just came over with Sir Swanee Tom.
He was one of the original Swedish founders of Austria in 1839.
Can you imagine?
My feeling is he had the only culture in Texas until about 1880.
What was his name again?
Sir Swanti Palm, P-A-L-M.
He was not knighted until 1885 when the king of Sweden invited him back to Sweden because of his efforts on the behalf of Texas.
Texas had no Swedish legation, so it did have a French legation.
in Germany.
These are in a Republic days, obviously, right?
Yeah.
It's three years after the Republic was formed, all of a sudden expanded.
We couldn't imagine these things coming, artworks, musical instruments, and just potteries and, you know, .
I like it.
How do I just leave these?
I'm going to go back to the building.
Okay.
I know you can find your way back to our building.
So what time do you want me there?
You take your time.
We have our appointment with not so free.
Oh, good.
With Michael.
Okay, wait a minute.
You can probably see Dave before that.
I feel right about getting back.
She's wonderful.
You come over too.
Come in good.
That's great.
How many, you said that one of the inducements to getting someone like Alfred Canard to give their things would be to give them a room.
How many of these rooms would you say that you have, roughly?
Well, one, two, three, four, six.
There were six rooms.
I love that smell.
Isn't that great?
It's a mixture.
It's a library smell.
These are the seeds of literary connections, right?
I'm guessing.
Now, this half of the way, it's gorgeous, too.
Here's a beer bomb.
These are in this villa, right by there.
Oh, I'm showing you two of the more interesting things.
This is our only sergeant, but this is Lady of Cynthia Asquith, daughter of the Prime Minister, who is one of the works for the leaders and adventures.
This was painted by Boris Pasternak's father.
Leonid was 19 years old.
Sarah Bernhardt was out of money in Paris, and so she cooked up this two or two, and he went down to the theater and painted it.
What is the movie?
This is a drawing by Oscar Wilde, a woman he hoped to marry, but she was from a very fine Douglas who thought he was not worthy.
And they made her break off the engagement, and she was so curious.
She demanded that she give him back the jewelry.
Did he?
She gave it back.
Oh, she later married the future author of Dracula.
Bram Stoker.
Right.
Yeah.
Here, uh, this is Evelyn Wallen in his uniform, again, in a year during the war.
Right, it's a good year.
Mm-hmm.
You have a wonderful walk collection.
Well, you have the pre-eminent walk collection, I guess, the walk collection.
Well, we never had a demonstration.
She wanted to be an illuminator.
John O'Hara?
Right.
Lots of Napoleon's here.
It was like .
A famous controversial portrait painting on that.
To this cray mistress.
Mm-hmm.
And everything's been so beautifully boxed now, I can't show you anything.
This is wonderful.
See, well, it shows that everything is really being cataloged and processed.
It's an ivory doctor doll.
We have little miniatures of moon ties for him to touch my home.
Portrait of Mary Lamb.
For his moon ties, yeah.
Look at, are these boxes made here?
Yes, they are.
We have a marvelous concert.
Spectacular.
Just as I say to him, so if we're down there, we can't see anything.
That's Mum Taz and her husband.
She had 13 children and died at 36.
He felt so bad about it.
Oh, that is, I just wrote a piece of paper.
I will.
Do you just ever come in here on your own and just kind of enjoy the things?
Well, we have 3,000 pieces of Erich Gale.
Here are some of the Erich Gale sculptures.
You may recognize that.
This is Erich Gale.
This is a legitimate stone by Gale and others who think are done by students.
David Kennersley, are you familiar with your students?
has given us some beautiful work.
So you know this to be Gil.
Is it signed someplace?
No, but it's tenderly the student verifies it.
It's definitely Gil.
Here's the other Gil sculptures.
Eve is part of a pair.
Adam is owned by the Tate Gallery, so we allowed Eve to go to London several years ago.
I'll let you have Adam sometimes.
Here's the famous Gil split.
Here's one of them, and the other one is standing right over there.
Now, the interesting thing about the Gill book, you know, has just been published, is that UCLA has a comparable collection to ours, but they have no sculpture.
We have the sculpture, but no diary.
They have all the diaries, and that's probably so much.
And here's John Bittgenheim.
uh we have a lot of fields we've got ten the queen owns the primary girl and so we were able to finish this is our twenty thousand dollars bought a car by rich illustrator edmund relax this is michael arland one of the pretty twenty thousand dollars we paid twenty thousand and we're talking about
Six inches by four inches, perhaps.
Right, right.
Have you ever seen the previous one?
No.
So, when I came into the collection, there were two major paintings of collections, the Australian collection and the Western collection.
In the 70s, the former director decided that he didn't want to go with them.
He transferred them out, so they're now with the Australian collection.
This is interesting.
This is a member of the Board of Readings in 1895 and all for his liberal life.
This is a beautiful little drawing of James Fenimore Cooper by John Jarvis, one of the better 19th-century painters.
This is also one of the better 19th-century painters, William Edward West.
That's beautiful.
He went all the way to Italy to paint the portrait of Lord Byron.
And at the time he was painting it, she said she thought it was disgusting.
But 15 years later, she was candid and said it was the best one ever done.
Some of the more significant ones.
The magnificent George Bernard Shaw, I'll see the top.
The top is just died within the life this time.
You may know.
This is really one of the finest of his portraits.
Look at that.
It hung out in the lobby here for 15 years.
It really looks beautiful, isn't it?
One of his great paintings.
And this is?
That's John Foster Dulles.
John Foster Dulles.
We have the John Foster Dulles collection.
We'll start again.
Right.
This is Howard Kirk, one of J. Frank Dobie's favorite artists.
Do you have Dobie's stuff?
Oh, yes.
Oh, you have Dobie's stuff?
Well, if Dobie is anywhere, he'd better be in Texas, that's for sure.
This is Dobie from a protestant.
Dobie's the great West Wing writer.
Ah, look at that.
These are wonderful.
This is Hemingway at the Siegfried Run by John Grosset.
I know it's Hemingway reading Ulysses, right?
That's right.
Who are these Hirshfields just said?
There's a whole series of Hirshfields.
The rest of them are theater people, so they're over at theater.
This is 1919 Dorothy Bratt's painting of Alice Huxley in Bloomsdale.
This is a long ago.
Whose idea was it to put together a literary connection art collection?
I love the idea.
Well, the original idea, as you do not understand, was the inventory of everything that belonged to the university was to be part of this building.
That was the reason for the space.
When we lost the space, we lost control over it.
So did this happen as a collection?
I mean, was this a focused collection from the start, or it was derived from existing collections?
This was focused to include everything the university owned.
I made a walk into it.
I went to every office.
I went to every closet.
So this is your baby?
Right.
In the 1970s, I did the first image work.
I love it.
It's really wonderful.
Well, that's why I love it.
And that's not the only reason I love it, but I mean, it's beautiful.
There was a book published by Abrams a year or two ago, The Writer's Image.
Are you familiar with that book, Paintings by Writers?
Doubly Gifted?
Doubly Gifted.
That's your book?
That's my book.
Would you like to have a paperback copy?
I have a high brown copy.
If I'd have known you were to be here, I'd have brought it for you to inscribe.
How lovely.
Doubly Gifted.
That's your book.
I didn't choose the name of the president at all.
The writer's image is another book.
Right.
Maybe it's not the same.
No, no, I know the Abelings book.
I wrote about it, as a matter of fact.
Oh, you did?
I will send you my column on it.
Isn't that... I have... I can back this up with the story, which I will send you with... If it's Writer's Image you wrote about, I'm going to send you a copy of mine.
No, no, Writer's Image is a book of photographs that was published by Goldeen.
Now I've got the two.
About ten years ago.
Your book is Doubly Gifty, which has a blue and white...
Jackets.
Right.
Okay, we're doing great.
And it's Evelyn.
It was $29.95.
Bless you.
Am I doing better now?
Oh, God, you're perfect.
This is the greatest one.
Now, this is 1906.
This is Mom.
He's roaming in Montmartre with a painting student named Gerald Kelly.
Isn't it wonderful?
And so, until 1965, Sir Gerald Kelly painted 15 portraits of him.
We have them all.
This is the first thing that I'm in my favorite.
This is Larry Rivers, uh, writing about John O'Hara.
That's wonderful.
Isn't that spectacular?
I've got a better of Larry Rivers.
See, see, I didn't know I was going to be interviewing you.
Had I known, I would have researched you so fully.
In fact, I would have brought that book with me for you to inscribe.
This is done at the Del Monte Ranch by a Swedish artist who wrote in on his horse and stage that I did.
And this is Lady Adeline Morel by none other than Augustus John.
This is the beautiful drawing he's ever given in.
There was an interesting biography of John, by Michael Hall, who wrote the biography of Mrs. John.
Oh, he's smart.
He came here in red.
He came close to this, y'all.
Here, is Wyndham Lewis' little giant of T.S.
Johnson.
This is in the book.
It's part of the tape they cut out.
But one stormy night, Wyndham Lewis was sitting in his little London apartment, and he heard somebody in the garden.
Somebody knocked on the door.
It was raining cats and dogs.
Somebody had jumped over the garden wall and was standing on his front steps, and they opened the door, and this little man said, I am Lauren.
If that was how you meant.
Everything has a story, you know.
I know.
Listen, I spent years researching that story, and I didn't have to believe anything.
Who did the Miller portrait on top?
That's very good.
A man named Drummond.
I don't know what he's saying.
A wonderful, spookier portrait.
We have his kill over at HRC, and we have his sword.
And there's also another little accoutrement that says, no gentleman ever dines on the battlefield without this utensil.
And inside this Jewel Hill is a little fork and a little knife that you're sitting about.
They're all all right.
This is extraordinary.
Come on.
Okay, a more interesting one.
Take the world by Mr. Chow, which is a portrait of India, which is going out all around Spain and will be circling in the United States.
This is really exciting.
Look at these are two, I'm sorry, these are two variants of the same.
Right.
Once the original one of the copies, particularly Henry purchased the copy,
This is from the Hanley, the famous Hanley collection.
So this is one of my favorite things for our student project.
This is your pride and joy, isn't it?
Come on, you can admit it.
Here's Edward L. Ruck-Tanker in his poncho pants.
We'll get to you in a minute.
If you could stand up in the weathering, yes.
You want to dry yourself.
Sarah Teasdale.
This is Yanks, my rocky stone, isn't it?
Oh, isn't that wonderful?
Look at that.
Right.
Was that one in your book?
No.
I had a self-portrait.
He got out of prison.
He was wearing his prison clothes.
Didn't you have a preface by John Uptake in that?
Yes.
I remember it very well.
Who also is an artist of some...
Well, I'm going to send you my copy of the book.
He's just publishing a book, you know.
It's called Just Licking.
That's right.
I think we have that.
Yeah.
Well, she hated it.
She would never allow us to use it on the catalog.
The last time this wild turkey ought to have been sold in New York, it's about $86,000.
Is that the size of that?
See, I've never seen it.
That's from the elephant pool of Vegas.
They say elephant.
They mean the elephant.
That is.
This is done by Gloria Swanson.
She was commissioned by the United Nations to do a decorative parent for Mother's Day.
It's pretty nice, isn't it?
It's not bad at all.
This is James Dines.
These are from Flaubert's Sages.
Dr. Henry.
This is A.E.
Russell, George A.E., a great Irish friend of me.
This is done by Gadamokishai's Uncle Gustaf, who was his prototype for Labella named Tom Lee.
Isn't this nice?
It's too great you can.
She's exhausted.
Are you kidding me?
We've got everything to do, isn't it?
Well, we have Marla's Japanese friends in doctors, of course, but then, uh, this, uh, Everlane's face, uh, about the notorious foragers, uh, Elmer Duhari.
Uh, he forged, uh, he claims to have at least 300 pegs and two of Picassos in American dreams.
Right.
Well, this is what he was doing before he was doing his forgery.
This is not a forgery.
No, this is what he was trying to do.
Why didn't he just stick to his regular art?
That's right.
Well, because it wasn't selling.
When he fell into it very gently, and everyone loves him, and no one would prosecute him, and no one would give up their family.
Give me his name once more slowly.
Elmir, E-L-M-I-R, Duh, Horace, H-O-R-Y.
And it's Irving Wallace's book called Fake.
That's the one.
Okay.
We have some nice little ear herbs.
He was a friend of Tom Lee, a friend of J. Frank Dobie's.
Didn't he do some book illustration to Frank?
For Dobie?
I don't know about for Dobie.
No, not for Dobie.
But they were friends and they exchanged things.
These are the gorgeous Frank Papay.
The ring of fondles, the dragon, and the whirlwind of this one.
What is the, again, what is the medium here?
Waterfall.
There's a white hole.
Can you imagine anybody, anybody, the English or the British can handle waterfalls.
Nobody.
They're just genius.
I can't believe that.
I'll show you another when you won't believe it's even prettier than that.
You can't make a mistake when you're doing a water color.
I mean, it's one shot.
Dorothy Bratt.
This is all of them at the ranch, including Susan Macau.
That's the little Del Monte Ranch, 1926, and Lawrence made the friends.
I love this place.
So much fun.
Now, here's Resurrection.
He painted it after he got back to the villa in Italy, but he felt he'd had a resurrection in New Mexico.
And this is either- This is Lawrence?
Dorothy Bratt, right.
But if you look quite carefully, you see that he's painted out the red beard.
The people in Taos used to call him a fox in Spanish, you know, with the words followed out of the messages for his beard.
This is either— But why did he paint it out, I wonder?
Oh, I think he didn't want it to be self-portrait, which it is.
Okay.
This is his favorite painting in the whole world called Rick Cameron.
the Boccaccio story that was seized in the war and rape for obscenity.
It's a Mercedes test about the shepherd who takes care of the needs of the young ladies all day in the convent.
And the last line of Boccaccio's story
He's lying in the shepherd, and Mother Superior comes by and says, and now my son, it's my turn.
He adored this.
He wrote, weeping, sad letters about, never, when the police had this, they were supposed all the paintings would have been burned.
Whose painting is this again?
D.H.
Lawrence.
That's D.H.
Lawrence's as well.
The only reason the paintings were not burned was that Lady Adeline Morrell stood up in the back of the courtroom and shook her umbrella and said,
The only person in this room that should be burned is the judge.
You can really see the parallels, can't you, between the writing and the art, can't you?
I can't, can't you?
I mean, that's Lawrence, without any question, without ever having seen it.
Let's be very calm here.
I want you to know, this is Charlotte Brompton.
Can't you see Charlotte Brompton?
Without any question.
There she is.
I mean, this is her landscape.
This is the quiet woman.
And what kind of woman painted this?
The inventor of the Cupid doll.
Rose O'Neill.
And this is called My Peevish Little Thorn.
My Peevish Little Thorn.
Look at the woman and the fawn.
I mean, you wonder what creative voices produce that piece.
I like kitsch.
Now, these are William Blake's.
That's the parable of the sower.
I saw some Blake's going to sell these a couple of weeks ago.
This is another QB doll.
This is George Hirschman.
This is really a wonderful collection.
It really is.
I'm devoted to writers, and any expression that— Well, this is Cummings during his cubistic period.
Can't you see him going to Paris and seeing the cubist pennies in English?
He gave me influence, too.
And this is Cummings, Paris, 1926, when he was a correspondent for Dial 19.
Which has Worcester connections, by the way.
The fellow who ran the dial was Thayer.
Thayer.
He married his wife.
He was a Worcester knight, yeah.
He left it off at the Metropolitan Museum of Life.
because they're sliding them with a bad review.
Oh, cool.
I guess I know how that works.
All right, now, here's one.
Here's another watercolor.
Can you believe it?
No, I can't believe it.
William Russell Flint, Judith, with the head of Holofun in it.
How can you get that kind of... I didn't know that kind of detail was possible in watercolor, really.
I'll show you one you're not going to break when you get back to the line.
Uh, this is Buckle, a Tennessee Williams doll, drawn by Hannah Moynihan on her stationery during the filming of the Rose Pack 2.
Oh, my goodness.
You must have some Tennessee Williams things, because he dabbled.
Yeah, of course, yeah.
This is 18th century armadillo, drawn by great British artists in the 18th century, Hallett.
Where did he get the land of Jell-O?
That's the question.
This is the way Jeff Portman.
Denning Rowan in 47, someone spoke with the University of Dallas at the Marlboro Film Theater.
47's pretty early, I mean.
He was riding a playtime for poker tonight.
And then when I was sitting in the room, I would open up and get the name.
And then, you know, what was this?
It came to the name of the church.
It's to speak there.
All right.
This is Deborah Biddington.
Whoops, sir.
Covered desk jacket for Pennsylvania.
This is Persian, probably
This is painted by John Foster Dollar.
That's not fair.
This is, for Tennessee, this is kind of juvenile, though.
I've seen better things by Tennessee Williams than that.
That's early.
That's 1947.
That's really quite nice up there, that tree.
There's no ashwaggle in town.
This is D'Medici.
Ferdinando D'Medici.
Actually, we're running out of D'Medici.
That's kind of nice, isn't it?
That was a gift to John Bustadale, to commemorate some great tragedy.
I think it's the Chinese center of Japan during the Great Depression.
I'm not sure.
I have a new one.
I'll listen to him, but I can't read it.
A paper-related counselor for Martin Luther King.
In the 1930s, he began doing Calendars IV, III, and IX, and II.
and became world famous for his dad, of course.
He's known for his, his, his, and, uh, fabulous.
I was going to, um, uh, these are Buck Sheehy's.
Marvelous.
This is right.
This is Texas, but it's really nice to know.
Um,
I think we're just wearing that.
I'd like to see Alfred Croft's room if we have a chance.
There's 550 right in there, right?
Mr. Ransom, Dr. Ransom lost my sister.
I know, I know, I know.
Lou Feldman?
I know, Lou Feldman was in New York.
Do you work with anybody else in New York?
Or is it pretty much Luke Feldman, I guess, Luke Feldman?
There are others.
I don't know.
But he was almost like the New York...
What room is this?
The whole room?
Yes.
This is the whole room?
No.
How many in this room?
About six.
And the director would be who it is.
He had to go personally to get those perspectives.
His wife,
You were there?
Yes.
Hold this.
And it's just as I was reading, she said, she said, I was killing myself.
He's driving in here every day at that time.
And she said, I'm making him close this thing.
And she said, I have, I'm giving you this.
It's in a good shape.
She said, I've just refused him off of $30,000 for it from a movie director who wanted to use it in the 1930s.
I'm giving it to you.
And this is the car sharing market.
It used to be 20 by 20, but every Thursday night, for 40 minutes, they had a little bit of a job.
If you had the stalls to come, if you were a different ranger, and you thought you'd be important enough, you could just show up on Thursday night.
And so they had one for... This was in New York or in Purchase?
No, this is in Puerto Rico.
This is in New York, okay.
And you look at this bag in there, and you're right around the corner of the garage.
And Robert John Libby has specially designed this blonde furniture for Blanche.
So, as we were leaving, Helen said, wait just a minute, and she opened the fast closet.
She's calling me here.
It's a plastered copy of the Nefertiti.
It's in the building again.
She said, here, take it.
Everyone says it looks just like Blanche.
And I'm standing there.
But of course I didn't take it.
But she was getting rid of everything.
Now, is this called the Croft Room?
Alfred A. and Blanche.
Okay.
But you see, this is a functional room.
You're not wasting space here at all.
You're using this for
Yeah, the books blend into the room.
This is Kyrielle G. Bond's portrait of G. Bond.
And Knopf used to come once a year to see this story.
He used to come see it.
Once a year, he'd come to see it.
He was, you know, he worked real.
This is May 1920, the G. Bond.
And he used to say, I never had a best job.
Well, this is in the 186th century, the process.
It's the first edition of Matthew King.
Have you ever had a best seller?
I want you to come and look for it.
I want you to stay in the doctor.
Thank you.
Do you think that this is a portrait or a photograph?
This is a photograph.
Well, I tied for you, you did it.
I think I have proof.
You tell me what you see.
Doesn't it look good, doesn't it?
No.
When about with this photograph taken?
It's like a young man.
Really?
What would you say the value of a personal library is?
to scholars, or is it really something that's great to all of them?
I wonder.
Well, it's not all.
It's all the significant literature published between the 1925 and 1965, let's say.
But it also has a small collection of rare books, and I really don't know how old they are.
Well, my guess is that he's the number one in Steve Begum, the American publisher of the 20th century, when you're looking at his own.
Well, it's just how do you gauge how many millions?
That's right.
Oh, here is the old Stanley Gardner study.
My God, they took a little... He's in his first, when he was 20, I had two black men in the community.
He started out in the gym.
He wanted to be a boxer.
And one night an attorney jumped on him and said he didn't have a license and he had no right to be doing this and he had to give it up.
And he was so impressed he'd met his mind at 18 and he was going to be a lawyer instead of a boxer.
So he became a lawyer.
Della Street became his secretary in his 20s.
He was 28 when he wrote his first story.
He stopped practicing law when he was 35.
Della Street saved him 45 years.
She married and had a daughter, but it didn't work out.
She went back to Oakland and the wife died six months before she did, and he married Della Street.
I didn't know Della Street was a real person.
Jane Bethel, her picture's a real person.
Now, he had the court arrest resort, which was a radio program, and they would air the cases of people who claimed they'd been in jail, but asked them.
And he then managed to get the view of them out of prison.
The audience would write in.
This is like the Smithsonian here.
That's where he is.
There was a tape recording describing everything in here.
He corresponded with Marlene Dietrich.
That little brown creature to the rise carrying what looks like a parasol at the swim show is the god of futility.
He rides his donkey backwards because he doesn't care where he's going.
Look at this phone.
That hat hanging on this side up here is crossed with an ash, blasting by a 97-year-old Indian, whom he was able to pray for prison.
He'd been in prison for 20 years, so murder did not commit.
I think this is nice, you know.
I mean, people who knocked this should come and see it.
Now, I'm sure that he made most of his own arrows on his great helmet.
He invented the counter.
I have photographs of him.
He took the model tape, cut the back off, and put this big box on it.
It was the first camera.
This was about 19.
Is this the actual wood paneling from his place?
No, it's recreated.
It's also three-quarter scale, but you can't tell it from you.
It's beautifully put back together by the color photographs that his nephew took of the room.
This room was added to his ranch to make him a Californian.
It was connected by a hall, 12 feet long.
I've seen pictures of it lined with books on both sides.
And he had guest houses.
He was always entertaining.
He loved to go down to Boja Peninsula with the screens when there were no roads in the middle too.
I think that's why his wife went back to bed.
He didn't do his writing at that desk?
Yes.
With all those curios on it, you think?
Oh!
He kept any secretary's days and transcribed in his text.
Geez.
He had a tape recorder in his car.
I read his diary.
Is this how he did his writing, then?
He dictated it?
Well, you know, he practiced the house.
I mean, he must have been.
He never stopped talking.
In his diary, he said he fell into a ditch and had a flat tire, and while he was waiting for the record, he wrote a story.
Look at this stuff.
But he was always being honored for his work.
He was excited.
He was probably a member of the bar.
He was a student in the United States.
This is his study companion who ran the range for him.
I've forgotten his name now.
But Del Street is Gene Bethel.
He's right here.
Dorger died two months before the study opened.
It was Gene Bethel came.
I wanted to give a gift to my pathologist, which was this, but they wouldn't let me.
And so when she came, we let her inside, and it was a very poignant moment, and she stood there and sang the desk, and she said, wow.
She said, it was never this neat.
I'm just reading this little thing on the wall.
It was Earl Stanley Gardner with trophies presented him like pocketbooks.
When one million of his books had been sold, then five million,
and then 50 million, and then 100 million copies of those books.
But that was 30 years ago, you knew that.
Yeah, books that happened, my God.
That's boggling, yeah.
Without question, without question.
Cultural and social as well as whatever else.
Well, he was constantly being invited by police departments all over the country to help them solve their cases in exchange for which they would allow him to go to this theater.
He had 250 notebooks, plot outlines.
That is except one page for a plot outline, 250 notebooks, and that's how many stories he came to write.
These are all badges which make him honorary sheriffs and chiefs of police.
And there's Wichita, and there's Harris County from Houston, and there's a license to carry concealed firearms.
There you go.
Look at that frame.
Isn't that wonderful?
Wonderful.
He's very proud of that.
But see, he did a lot of things they liked, just by airing it, by television, and all the different ones you hear, all his books.
Very nice first editions, I can see, with nice best jackets.
Are these his own books, or are these?
Yes.
He sent us, there were 600 cardboard boxes that came full of scrapbooks, photographs, everything he ever owned was here.
This is copy number 50 million of a pocketbook edition.
Oh, that's just one book.
That book alone sells 50 million.
The title of that book is The Case of the Lonely Heiress, 25 cents, pocketbook.
My God.
To Earl Stanley Garden of the world's most widely read-off, whose sales and pocketbook editions have surpassed 100 million copies, pocketbook since January 1962.
It says...
Wow.
That's really something.
Yeah.
This is nice.
I'm sorry.
There's an F-8 Navy Crusader.
I'm an old aircraft carrier.
I know the aircraft.
This is nice.
I like this.
Well, I like it too.
I mean, why not?
Well, you know, I'm going to shut this off and say this.
Let me tell you just one more story.
How he became famous as a lawyer.
He had no clients, of course, when he hung up a shingle.
He was about 20 years old.
But at that time, the Chinese laborers were really having a rough time.
They decided to go on strike, so the employers had warrants out for all their reds in this day.
So he thought, oh, they're going to subpoena them all to the poet.
So Gardner thought this story up.
So the next one, the officers came and they knocked on him.
So Mr. Wu and opened it.
There was no Mr. Wu, they were just Lings.
The Lings, the Wu's had all gone to the Lings House.
And he'd had this whole community shift houses so that the subpoena officers couldn't get their hands on any of them.
This room is the public cell.
Look at this.
Mr. Hustle was an entrepreneur of sorts in Vogueville, and Esther was seen in light opera.
They met in Chicago on the circuit, married.
He came back to Texas.
He bought one movie theater.
Eventually, he owned all the movie theaters.
We saw his things over in the theater arts.
Right.
This is the tail end of our screenwriter's exhibition.
This is Doris Watson's pinion.
This is Esther's portrait.
This is a replica of a ring in their home in Dallas.
This is the painted wallpaper.
I was going to ask if that's the same wallpaper.
No, it was copied, exactly, in Hong Kong.
Is it silk?
It's on the shelf there.
Right.
These are gibbons, carvings from the 17th century.
He was Christopher Wrens of Houston, who restored London at the break by 16th century.
She's a lovely woman, wasn't she?
It's lovely.
Look at this piece.
Look at this extraordinary piece.
I mean, this is not scary.
It's still extraordinary.
It's scary in Hong Kong.
It's given to us by Mrs. Duvall, who was a member of the border region.
Her father was an importer exporter.
The Texas people?
Yes, Long Beach.
There isn't, there's no room there just because you don't have the... Well, it's here.
This is nice.
The floor, I know, but we've put it here because of the wallpaper.
It doesn't go with the chipping day.
This is, this is ours for my days on Mrs. Hobbesville.
This is a real chipping day.
And Mrs. Hobbesville Foundation was here last week and they said, what are the contents of this?